[![build status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/millermedeiros/amd-utils.png)](http://travis-ci.org/millermedeiros/amd-utils)
# amd-utils #

http://millermedeiros.github.com/amd-utils

modular JavaScript utilities written in the
[AMD](https://github.com/amdjs/amdjs-api/wiki/AMD) format.

All code is library agnostic and consist mostly of helper methods that aren't
directly related with the DOM, the purpose of this library isn't to replace
Dojo, jQuery, YUI, Mootools, etc, but to provide modular solutions for common
problems that aren't solved by most of them.



## Main goals ##

 - increase code reuse;
 - be clear (code should be clean/readable);
 - be easy to debug;
 - be easy to maintain;
 - follow best practices;
 - follow standards when possible;
 - **don't convert JavaScript into another language!**
 - be compatible with other frameworks;
 - be modular;
 - have unit tests for all modules.



## What shouldn't be here ##

 - UI components;
 - CSS selector engine;
 - Event system - pub/sub;
 - Template engine;
 - Anything that could be a separate library and/or isn't a modular utility...



## Important ##

Since each function is a separate module they have independent version numbers.

Since code is very modular (broken into multiple files) it is really important
that you run an optimizer before deploying the code to a server, otherwise you
may end up having too many file requests which can [degrade load-time
performance](http://developer.yahoo.com/performance/rules.html#num_http) a lot.
See [RequireJS optimization](http://requirejs.org/docs/optimization.html) for
more info.



## Contributing ##

Fork the project on Github: https://github.com/millermedeiros/amd-utils

 > "Write clearly, don't be too clever" - The Elements of Programming Style

Avoid unnamed functions and follow the other modules structure. By only using
named functions it will be easier to extract the code from the AMD module if
needed and it will also give better error messages, JavaScript minifiers like
[Google Closure Compiler](http://code.google.com/closure/compiler/) and
[UglifyJS](https://github.com/mishoo/UglifyJS) will make sure code is as
small/optimized as possible.

 > "Make it clear before you make it faster." - The Elements of Programming Style

Be sure to always create tests for each proposed module. Features will only be
merged if they contain proper tests and documentation.

 > "Good code is its own best documentation." - Steve McConnell

We should do a code review before merging to make sure names makes sense and
implementation is as good as possible.

Check the [contributors list at github](https://github.com/millermedeiros/amd-utils/contributors).



## Why AMD? ##

**Because AMD is awesome!** Read these links if you still can't see why:

 - [Why AMD?](http://requirejs.org/docs/whyamd.html)
 - [AMD is better for the web than CJS modules](blog.millermedeiros.com/2011/09/amd-is-better-for-the-web-than-commonjs-modules/)
 - [AMD & CommonJS modules](http://briancavalier.com/presentations/pgh-js-amd-10-2011/)
 - [AMD vs. CJS](http://unscriptable.com/index.php/2011/09/30/amd-versus-cjs-whats-the-best-format/)

Your mileage may vary...



## License ##

Released under the [MIT License](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php).



## Node.js ##

AMD-utils also works on [node.js](http://nodejs.org), just run:

   npm install amd-utils

It will download amd-utils from the NPM repository and convert the AMD modules
into a node.js compatible module.

    var utils = require('amd-utils');
    console.log( utils.math.clamp(100, 0, 50) ); // 50



## Building The Documentation ##

The documentation is generated based on markdown files inside the
`doc/mdown` folder using [mdoc](https://github.com/millermedeiros/mdoc).
To compile the docs run:

    npm install .
    node build

It will replace all the files inside the `doc/html` folder and update packages
and specs runners, this way we avoid human mistakes.

Documentation files should be always up-to-date since modules are only
committed to the `master` branch after they get proper tests and documentation.

Online documentation can be found at http://millermedeiros.github.com/amd-utils
